Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
THE SECOND VICTIM
Morning.
- Morning.
- Morning. Esben.
Cheers!
Maybe you should ...
- But I’m not breastfeeding anymore.
- That’s outside my expertise.
- Didn’t I hear you on P1 this morning?
- Yes.
- You were good. Very factual.
- Thanks.
Hi! Sorry.
Why do people say “sorry”
when they haven’t done anything wrong?
- Excuse me.
- Incredible!
- What was your name?
- Emilie. And Alex. right?
- Yes.
- Hi.
Are you the backup on neurology today? I’m the primary.
Esben is the neurosurgeon up there.
Their locker room is being renovated.
Ok. damn. Sorry. I didn’t know that.
- I’m going over there.
- You couldn’t have known.
A Christian is on backup.
- Have you seen Christian today?
- No.
- Who do I ask if I have questions?
- Ask Birgitte. she’s in charge.
- First time I’m alone as primary.
- Exciting.
Yes. exciting. But I’m also nervous.
- It’ll probably go fine.
- Have a good day.
- You too.
- Yes. you too.
Skip the lip gloss.
- Otherwise people will think you’re a nurse.
- Ok. Of course. Thanks.
- Morning. Trine. Are you on thrombolysis?
- Yes.
Good.
- Thrombolysis on call. Alexandra.
- This is Aske from A22.
I have a Winnie here. 59 years old.
The son called because she sounded
strange on the phone.
She is having trouble speaking
and is weak on the right side.
When did the symptoms start?
Hard to say. but she was
completely fine last night.
If it happened during the night. it’s urgent.
Where are you?
- We are ten minutes away.
- Can you give me her vital signs?
Blood pressure is 180/80. pulse 99.
respiratory rate 18 and blood sugar 6.2.
- Thanks. See you.
- When will they arrive?
Ten minutes. It’s a wake-up stroke.
so we have a maximum of 30 minutes.
- And what’s her name?
- Winnie.
The medical records system isn’t working.
- It’ll probably be up soon.
- Ok. I’ll head to the morning meeting.
Alex?
You’ll just need to discharge a few patients.
- The night shift ran a bed-and-breakfast.
- I’ll do that.
What’s the difference between God and a doctor?
God knows he’s not a doctor.
Sorry? A man in the hallway
ismaking all sorts of strange noises.
- He only needs Klopoxid.
- It’s eight o’clock. so let’s start.
- Is that you again?
- As you know. Christian is sick.
Which means we don’t have any backup
at emergency this morning.
Can someone cover the phone
for a couple of hours?
I’ve been here all night.
I’m alone on the ward.
Who is the primary?
- Emma.
- Emilie. almost right. It’s me.
- She’s been here for what? two weeks?
- That gives me a bit of a stomach ache.
- I can take it from ten o’clock.
- Then we’re missing backup for two hours.
- Emilie’s handling that just fine.
- If Otto approves. I’m satisfied.
But that doesn’t change the fact
that it’s a poor staffing base.
- What do you feel we should do?
- I don’t “feel” much at work.
But I wonder if you’re considering
hiring another medical specialist.
We can’t fire him
because he’s sick.
No. but it affects patients
that he’s not here.
- Agreed.
- It shouldn’t. though.
But the department should support their colleague.
He’s had a tough year.
- What happened to Christian?
- It’s a long story.
Yeah. he couldn’t handle it.
He got a complaint.
and it became a bigger issue.
We’ll stop there.
We still lack backup.
- I’ll take it.
- Ok. Thanks. Alex.
- Isn’t thrombolysis and ER too much?
- It’s fine.
- If it’s Alex. I feel safe.
- She can handle it.
- I have to go. Call if anything comes up.
- I will.
- Excuse me. someone called for me.
- It wasn’t me.
- Are you the priest?
- Yes.
Inside out.
- Morning. Kamal.
- Morning. boss.
- Winnie Nielsen for thrombolysis assessment.
- Yes. Thanks.
- That was me you spoke with. Anything new?
- No.
- What was the last blood pressure?
- 180/80.
- Is she on blood thinners?
- The son didn’t think so. He’s on his way.
- So no blood thinners?
- Not according to him.
Hi. Winnie.
My name is Alex. I’m a doctor.
You’ve come in because we suspect
you’ve had a blood clot in the brain.
We’re going to examine you.
It will be quick. but we’ll explain afterwards.
Now I’m taking this off you.
Winnie. can you tell me
how old you are?
Good. Can you tell me
what month it is?
Yes. Can you look at me?
Close your eyes.
Open them again.
Yes. that’s good.
Winnie. look at my hand now.
Yes. Good.
Ok. good.
Winnie. now I’m lifting your arm.
I’ll let go. and you keep
it up while I count to five.
Now I’m counting.
One. two. three. four. five.
Yes. good.
Now we do the same with the other.
I’ll let go. and you hold it up.
One. two ... Yes. good. Fine.
Do you feel this. Winnie?
Yes. it hurts a bit.
And this ... ? No. Good.
Good. Take her to MRI.
Hi. Winnie. We’re taking you to MRI scanning.
and we’ll see you afterwards.
Morning. Ragnar.
Catch!
Oh. thanks! My candy.
- Well deserved.
- One moment.
Yes. this is Ragnar.
Yes. But why?
I’ve said countless times that I won’t
cover for your incompetence.
That’s just how it is. Thanks. goodbye.
I’m so fed up with the ER.
They send patients here
to get an MRI –
– instead of properly examining them.
Do you think they know what it costs?
Definitely not. Defensive medicine
will be the downfall of healthcare.
Here come the images.
- Stroke. Infact in the left hemisphere.
- That matches the aphasia. When?
It happened three to four hours ago.
We must treat her immediately.
She weighs about 60 kg. so 54 mg Actilyse.
5.4 mg given as bolus.
the rest over 60 minutes. thanks.
- That’s correct.
- Yes.
Here we have a real doctor
who doesn’t mess around.
Exactly.
Yes. “hashtag MeToo”.
- It’s just called “MeToo.”
- Yes. yes. we’ll say that.
Alex? I still don’t
have access to her records.
- Ok.
- It’s completely hopeless.
- The son said she’s not taking medication.
- That won’t hold up in court. What do we do?
- We start treatment.
- We can’t.
We have to wait
until the records system works.
- We don’t have time.
- Take over!
What are you doing? This is a hospital.
we don’t throw things here.
Winnie. look at me a bit.
Can you point to the ceiling?
Good. Thanks.
Now I’m going to ask you
something very important:
Do you take any medication? Yes? Or no?
No? You don’t take any medicine?
Good. Then we can give Actilyse.
- Neurology on-call.
- Emilie here.
Man. 18 years old. had a headache yesterday. I’m
unsure if he has neck stiffness.
- 5.4 mg Actilyse.
- Wait a bit. I’m in the middle of a thrombolysis.
- Are you sure?
- Yes. Thanks.
Alright. Emilie.
Continue. but speak slowly.
I’m struggling to assess this
and would like supervision.
Ok. I’m coming.
- I’m going to Emilie. Back in five.
- You’re going? Now?
- Call if anything changes.
- Yes.
Hi. How’s it going here?
Hi.
Excuse me?
Can you check his medication?
I was told he should have Klopoxid.
That could well be epilepsy.
Please check. will you?
- Morning.
- Morning. Elias.
- Sure?
- Yes.
Good morning.
My name is Alexandra. and I am a neurologist.
- Camilla.
- Was it something urgent?
- Urgent?
- Relax. mom.
Emilie is a doctor in training.
so I’m just supervising.
- So it’s not serious?
- Take it easy.
Oliver has had severe headaches
since yesterday.
Everything looks fine as far as I can see.
but I’m unsure if his neck is stiff.
It’s hard to judge.
- It doesn’t hurt as much as yesterday.
- Let the doctor examine you now.
- He’s busy. It’s his birthday.
- Oh. how old are you turning?
- 18.
- Congratulations. Big one.
- How are you feeling?
- Good.
- Do you have a fever? Nausea?
- No. I feel completely fine.
- Have you been drinking much alcohol lately?
- A little.
You don’t drink that much.
It has nothing to do with alcohol.
- Oliver. look at my nose.
- Yes.
Now I’ll shine a light into your eyes.
Good.
Look at the tip. Keep your head still.
and follow it with your eyes.
- Good. Have you ever seen double?
- No.
Keep eye contact with me.
and hold your arms out to the sides.
Then touch your nose with one hand.
Good. Now the other.
Good. Can you keep your eyes on mine
and touch my finger with yours?
Very good.
Now we’ll go to the bench.
Lie down with your head at this end.
Towards me.
- Should I take off my shoes?
- No.
- Lie down. we’ll sort that afterwards.
- Like this...
I’m examining your neck.
so just relax. I’m holding your head.
Good. Tell me if it feels tight
or painful.
Good.
Can we go home now?
Yes. it seems like normal migraine
or a hangover.
- Are you sure?
- Yes. You can go home.
He can have Panadol for the pain.
But check that he doesn’t get nauseous.
- Thanks. That’s a relief.
- Thank you.
- I’m coming now.
- No MRI just to be safe?
You’ll just get Ragnar on your back.
There’s no need for that.
- Here I am.
- Blood pressure is 210/100.
- Stop the infusion. Anything in the bladder?
- No.
Give me 20 mg Trandate. please.
- Winnie? Are you nauseous?
- Yes.
- Do you have a headache?
- 20 mg Trandate.
- Thanks.
There. Winnie.
Yes. this isn’t fun.
- That was good. Winnie.
- Water.
- I’ll get you some water.
What’s going on out there?
- I’ll see.
- Thanks.
Her name is Winnie.
Tell me where she is!
- Answer me! Her name is Winnie!
- Calm down.
Hi. Are you Winnie’s son?
- My name is Alexandra and I’m a doctor.
- Anders.
- Do you know where she is?
- Come.
They refused to say anything.
She sounded strange on the phone.
- I will tell you.
- Is she okay?
Your mother had a blood clot last night.
but she’s doing fine.
She has received treatment.
and it seems to be working.
Does that mean ...? Is she going to ...?
Do you want to talk to her?
I think she’ll be happy to see you.
Come with me.
Here is Anders. Winnie’s son.
Hi. Anders. Come in.
Winnie. Anders is here now.
- Thrombolysis on call. Alexandra.
- Hi. it’s Christina.
Åge. 82 years old. complains about
tingling in the fingers.
He is unwell. He has diabetes.
- When did the symptoms start?
- A few days ago. he says.
Sounds like a minor clot.
but it’s too late for thrombolysis.
But send him to neurology.
they will examine him.
- Okay. we will. What are your initials?
- AD.
- Okay. thanks. Goodbye.
- Thanks. Goodbye.
- Alex. do you have two seconds?
- Yes ...
Isn’t it a bit early
for me to be on call alone?
You can manage just fine.
Thanks. but you said
I should speak up if I felt ...
There’s no time for feelings.
It sounds a bit self-centered.
You are here for the patients’ sake.
remember that.
Yes. that’s what I’m trying to be.
You’ll manage. I know that.
Help! Oliver?
Help! He collapsed.
- We need help! Red alert!
- Alex. what should I do?
Under the head. Camilla. let me through.
- Oliver?
- 5 mg Stesolid.
- What’s happening?
We just need a bit of space to work.
- I need a bed!
- A bed!
- A bed and oxygen!
- I’ll fix it.
- On the side!
- Sorry.
- Stay with him. Emilie!
- I’m bringing a bed.
- Take him to MRI now!
- Where are you taking him?
- To MRI to find out more.
- What’s wrong with him?
- He’s in good hands.
- You can’t just leave.
- I’ll be back. I promise.
I’ll be back.
- Don’t leave me!
- Wait here.
It’s a brain hemorrhage.
- Can it be closed with coiling?
- A bleed like that? Impossible.
- Ragnar ...
- I suggest surgery.
The risk of rupture is too great.
Coiling seems like the best option.
It’s impossible.
How big is the risk?
80% risk that the bleeding worsens during surgery.
Then he dies.
But 20% chance that you can stop it.
Maybe only 15.
The alternative is a coma for the rest of his life.
- Or that he wakes up with brain damage.
- We can’t say anything about that now.
I believe he has a better prognosis
if he is not operated on.
Okay. Then I will just write in the journal that you
do not want to operate on him.
It’s not that I don’t want to. but…
He is 18 years old.
- We’ll give it a try.
- Good.
Good.
I’m going in to Birgitte. Come when you’re ready.
Yes.
- Here’s the phone.
- Great.
We have gathered for a quick review of the
critical incident you encountered.
We are here to create understanding
and not to place blame.
Okay?
I have a meeting in five minutes.
but this should go well.
Alex. can you recount how you experienced
the sequence of events?
I was called around 08:15.
Headache patient. I sent him home since we found
no signs of anything acute.
- So you received the patient?
- No. Emilie did.
So young doctors shouldn’t receive patients in neurology.
- Are you saying it was my fault?
- No.
Let’s leave the question of blame for now.
We will return to your experience. I promise.
- Alex. do you want to continue?
- Yes.
- He came back after a while.
- How long?
Ten minutes. We shouted "red alert"
and then it got hectic.
Yes. and I felt that it became an
uncomfortable atmosphere. -
- and that people were unpleasant towards each other.
It wasn’t fun.
- It can seem overwhelming. but …
- That’s how it can be when things have to go fast.
I’m sure everyone did their best.
Poor boy.
I called the senior doctor. What more could I have done?
It’s perfectly normal that junior doctors
do initial examinations.
And Alex did examine him when doubts arose. right?
- Yes.
- And then found no indications?
No. If I had seen something.
I would have sent him for an MRI.
- No. damn it. ...
- So. so.
There were no signs when he came in. I also examined him.
I’m just sure that I told you that …
What?
Nothing. I’m not quite sure. I don’t remember. Sorry.
- Emilie. you’re all good.
- Yes. very good.
- Is there anything else you want to share with us?
- No.
Then we’ll finish. Time’s up as well. but it was
good we got to the bottom of this.
Thanks. Alex?
Can you have
a cup of coffee with Emilie?
That was completely pointless.
- How is Oliver doing?
- They are going to operate on him now.
- Do you think he’ll wake up?
- I think so. He’s young.
The brain is very plastic in that area.
I thought the prognosis
for brain bleeds was poor.
- Either death or brain damage.
- It depends on type and location.
I know it wasn’t anyone’s fault.
but I think we should have sent him to MRI.
Emilie. we can’t send
every headache patient to MRI.
But what if it could have saved his life?
- But he’s not dead.
- No. thank you.
If there are no signs.
then there are no signs.
- Hi. Hanne. Aren’t you off?
- Someone got sick.
That explains it.
What?
I told you.
I just didn’t want to say it
in front of the others. The neck stiffness.
- You didn’t mention that.
- Yes. that’s why I called you.
You called me because you didn’t know
how to check for neck stiffness.
No. I called because I found
neck stiffness. I wrote that in the records.
- Haven’t you seen it?
- No. I haven’t had time.
But I told you. both on the phone
and in the room.
Oliver won’t get better because
I read the records.
He needs the right treatment.
and the relatives need us.
- But it’s ...
- I have to go.
Fine.
Thrombolysis on call. Alexandra.
SEARCH PATIENT:
Acute headache.
WARNING!! Neck stiffness.
SUSPECTED BRAIN BLEED.
Responsible doctor Alexandra Demir
does not confirm neck stiffness.
Oliver Stiig Winther sent home
by Alexandra Demir.
- Alex?
- What?
You promised me a discharge.
Yes. I’m just going to surgery.
then I’ll look at it.
Okay.
- How is he?
- Fine. They’re going to operate on him now.
That’s good.
What’s going on?
- We’re not operating.
- Why not?
The risk of rupture is too high.
just as I assessed.
- Didn’t we agree it was best?
- I can’t. I say.
If the bleed had been discovered earlier.
maybe. but ...
- Who admitted him?
- A junior doctor. but I ...
He collapsed shortly after.
When did symptoms start?
His mother called the medical emergency line yesterday.
so it was probably a “warning leak”.
- Obviously.
- That doesn’t change anything.
No. but if he had come in yesterday.
we wouldn’t be in this situation.
It’s a matter of minutes
with bleeds like this.
Oh ... For fuck’s sake!
Should I know anything more
before I fetch the mother?
- This is completely pointless.
- Esben. should I know anything more?
He’s in a coma.
Now we’ll see if he wakes up.
If that boy dies ...
it’s not my fault.
- He’ll wake up.
- I’ve reported it.
So if the parents sue.
you don’t mention my name.
Why would they?
Do you know how much it costs
to go to couples therapy?
- We’ve spent 46.000.
- You’re kidding!
Trine? Where are the parents?
The mother is sitting in the lounge.
- Ridiculously expensive.
- I've had to do extra shifts.
- Hello. wrong way!
- I forgot my phone.
- Camilla. Hello again.
- Hi.
- Is Oliver’s father coming?
- Yes. he’s on his way.
- Should we wait for him?
- No. I want to know what’s happening.
Just sit down.
The thing is Oliver had
a serious brain bleed.
I talked to the neurosurgeon.
and they have decided not to operate.
Now they’re putting him
in a room in intensive care.
Doesn’t he need surgery then?
The surgeon believes it's too risky.
It could worsen his condition.
- So now he’s in a coma.
- In a coma? What does that mean?
It means he is stable.
So now we just wait
for him to wake up.
He said yesterday
that he had a headache.
- I knew something was wrong.
- But he seemed happy and healthy.
But he’s my child.
and you can tell these things.
You couldn’t have known.
I didn’t notice anything suspicious either.
- That’s all I wanted to say.
- But that ...
Thank you.
Hi. I've brought Oliver’s mother. Camilla.
Hi. my name is Aïda.
I’m an intensive care nurse.
Just sit beside him.
if you want.
Let me know if you need anything.
The surgeon will be here soon.
He’s busy with another operation right now.
- Are you from neuro?
- Yes. that was me who ...
I just wanted to follow up with her.
My name is Alex.
Ok. Esben is on his way.
so he’ll take over.
- Good.
- Thanks.
Can he hear me?
You can talk to him
with short and simple sentences.
Explain what you’re doing.
For example:
Now I’m moving your arm.
Now I’m stroking your forehead.
All touch is good.
And you can calmly call his name
and say he should come back.
Sing favorite songs. Maybe
explain why he’s in hospital.
Why is he in hospital?
I’m sure Esben. the surgeon.
will go through everything with you.
Why is it my boy lying there?
Sorry. I just think it’s so unfair.
I understand that very well.
We tried to have children for many years.
People said I should give up.
that something was wrong with
my fallopian tubes.
But I wanted it so badly.
So we gave up. But then suddenly...
... he came.
He is our little miracle.
Yes.
Just let me know if you need anything.
Are you leaving?
Yes. But I’ll come back
and check on you later.
That would be nice.
Message me when the father arrives.
Yes. it’ll probably be fine.
He manages just fine by himself.
Then you’ll have to change plans.
I’m doing terribly.
I can’t even wipe my own arse.
- Mum. the doctor is here.
- I have to go. Bye.
- Hi. Winnie. How are you?
- You don’t need to worry about me.
- I’m worried anyway.
- You’re kind.
Can you smile at me?
That was something else.
Can you swallow?
- Is it hard?
- Yes.
It can be if some nerves are damaged.
Can you say these sounds?
Ka-ka. Pa-pa. Ta-ta.
- "Ka-ka. Pa-pa. Ta-ta."
- Great!
Sorry for my behaviour earlier.
I was just... so scared.
- I understand.
- We only have each other.
- It’s just the two of us. mum and me.
- I’m not dead!
- Mum. this isn’t funny.
- Not yet.
Do you know if she will
have lasting damage from this?
- If she’ll be normal again?
- “Normal”?
It’s too early to say.
but I’m very optimistic.
It’s just that on the phone.
when I called her. she sounded so...
... strange. She was completely...
Sorry.
- I just got so damn scared.
- It’s totally fine.
It all happened so suddenly.
Of course you were scared.
The nurse said that if it
wasn’t for you. she would have...
- You saved her life.
- I just did my job.
Thank you!
OLIVER’S FATHER IS HERE.
- I have to go now. but it looks good.
- Thanks.
My little treasure.
Hi. Where are the parents?
She went to get him.
The father couldn’t find his way.
- How is Oliver doing?
- The blood pressure has fluctuated a bit.
Where is Esben?
He’s still operating.
but was about to finish when I called.
When did you last check the pupils?
I check them every hour.
Is it a bit quiet on thrombolysis today?
What’s going on?
Alex?
The pupils aren’t light-responsive.
- Is he diabetic?
- Alex...
I had a patient in a deep coma who turned out...
- I’m going to get the parents.
- No. wait!
- The parents should be told now.
- He really shouldn’t be lying here at all.
What do you mean by that?
What if I missed something
when I examined him?
It’s not relevant to talk about now.
But you have to tell them.
Hi.
- Hi.
Welcome back.
Hi. Oliver’s father. Karl.
- Alex. Medical specialist.
- Now I’m here.
- Hi.
- Hi. I’ll find a chair for you.
- Thanks.
- Here you go.
So many machines.
I’ll get Esben. Wait here.
Has anything happened
while I was gone?
- I just came to say hi.
- Thanks.
Now the father has arrived too.
Can he hear what we’re saying?
Yes. we’re going to talk normally to him.
Is he sleeping. or is he in a coma?
- Can you fix the blanket?
- Yes.
Just smooth it out a bit.
There. Now dad fixed the blanket.
Isn’t that better?
Have they said anything
about when he’ll wake?
- It’ll probably be fine.
- Karl. can you take off your hat?
- Esben is almost done.
- Yes. I just need to...
- The surgeon is on his way.
- Thanks.
- Yes?
- Oliver is registered as an organ donor.
You need to come. Esben hasn’t arrived.
and now we have to tell the parents.
- Are you there?
- Yes.
I’m coming now.
Ten minutes tops. then I’ll be there.
That’s fine. Good.
- Hi.
- Hi. Alex.
I just wanted to check in on Oliver.
- How’s it going in there?
- The father is here. We’re giving them some time.
- I was asked to hurry.
- What do we do now?
- With what?
- With Oliver’s condition.
What’s going on with it?
- Haven’t you told him?
- Told him what?
Yes. about the pupils.
Oliver has no pupillary reflex.
What?
Why aren’t you saying anything?
- What have you told the parents?
- Nothing yet.
For God's sake! Come on. now!
Good day.
My name is Esben and I’m a neurosurgeon.
I’m responsible for Oliver’s treatment.
Were you the one who didn’t want to operate him?
Calm down and listen to the doctor.
The thing is. we would like to
examine Oliver a bit.
But you can wait outside.
- I don’t understand. Examine what?
- Alex. you said everything looked fine.
- We just want to examine him.
- Go ahead and do that.
It’ll be quick.
You can sit outside.
- Why can’t I be here?
- We’re going out.
- Alex. what’s going on?
- It’ll only take a moment.
We’re waiting outside now.
- It won’t take long.
- Okay. come on.
Can I borrow a flashlight?
Thanks.
- Is he a registered donor?
- Yes. with consent from next of kin.
- That’s nice of such a young guy.
- Then we have to talk to the parents.
Yes. the blood pressure is difficult to keep up.
- Things are moving fast now.
- The donation must happen today.
If you had operated as agreed.
maybe this wouldn’t have happened.
Maybe you should have
that conversation some other time?
- It seems a bit rushed.
- The organs aren’t for me.
- We should respect the deceased’s wishes.
- There are other considerations.
If we wait too long.
the material won’t be viable.
- I’m talking to the parents.
- No. Oliver was my patient.
You haven’t taken responsibility
for either Oliver or the parents.
I have a better relationship
with them than you do.
Fine.
Then I’ll call the transplant center
and ask what they want.
- And Aïda. you’ll join the conversation.
- Okay.
Yes...
Unfortunately it looks like
Oliver’s condition has worsened.
How?
There are no signs that the brain is alive
when we examine him.
So there is a high risk
that Oliver’s brain is dead.
Unfortunately.
- But you said everything was fine.
- What does that mean?
That the brain no longer functions
because it isn’t getting blood.
- But he’s breathing.
- There’s a respirator breathing for him.
And the heart?
It’s beating because we’re keeping it going.
Well then he’s alive.
The body is alive. isn’t that what you’re saying?
Technically the body is alive. but...
... he’s not going to wake up again.
But maybe he’ll get better
in a few days?
He is young after all.
- He healed quickly.
- Did I say...?
- I’m sorry. we can’t do anything more.
- There’s always something you can do.
So what happens now?
We don’t need to talk about it now...
- About what?
- We can wait a bit.
We have to inform you that
Oliver is a registered organ donor—
with consent from next of kin.
- I don’t understand. What does that mean?
- "Donor"? Is this a sick joke?
- You don’t have to agree to the procedure.
- What procedure?
- Won’t you wait a bit?
- No. I want to know.
It’s an operation
where they remove—
—the biological material
that can be used.
- "Material"?
- He’s going to look nice.
He will look nice. They’ll close him up again.
and he’ll be dressed in his own clothes.
- They can’t just cut him up.
- Did Oliver sign up himself?
Yes.
What are you doing?
- That was Oliver’s wish.
- Don’t sign. He’s our son!
I’m not signing.
We do a thorough brain death examination
to confirm...
At the slightest sign of life
we do not proceed with the donation.
So there’s still hope.
in other words?
That’s what you’re saying. right?
I can’t rule it out.
- I want to be present for the examination.
- It can be a bit...
- And Karl does too.
- Yes.
You have that right.
but I don’t recommend it.
He’s in there. I can feel it.
Oliver?
Oliver. can you hear me?
Oliver!
I’m checking the pupillary reflexes again.
but now with movement.
Ice water.
I’m pouring ice water into Oliver’s ear canal
to affect his balance reflex.
Now I’m doing
pain stimulation on his feet.
Can you please...
- Are you taking his hand?
- Yes.
- Sorry.
- What?
I’m just...
One more time. Just squeeze.
Yes... Breathing.
We’re disconnecting the respirator
to see if Oliver can breathe on his own.
We start timing now.
You can reconnect it.
Yes. the clinical examination
confirms brain death.
What did you tell them before the examination?
That the brain isn’t working.
I’ll ask you once more:
What did you tell them?
- It was a long conversation...
- Stop.
You gave the parents the impression
that there was hope.
- I can’t take away their hope.
- What are you thinking? He’s brain dead.
We can’t know what will happen.
if he wakes up...
Yes.
I’ve seen several hundred like this.
They never wake up.
Have you ever had a brain-dead patient before?
No.
Such arrogance.
To think you know better
in this field.
It’s deeply disturbing.
Our job is to be objective
in situations like this!
- I...
- You doubt my professional knowledge.
You break agreements with colleagues.
and you lie to the relatives.
Is there anything else
you forgot to tell?
Sorry. I haven’t quite
been myself today.
What kind of doctor are you?
Are you filming? Are you ready?
I’m ready. are you?
Ok. One. two. three. now!
Can you stop!
Sorry. Jonas has taken over
the department’s Instagram. so Birgitte asked...
Emilie. I don’t care.
- Maybe we can finish filming later?
- Yes. See you.
Is there any news about Oliver?
He’s dead.
Oh no.
That’s terrible.
What happened? Are you okay?
In the record. you accuse me of sending
home a patient with a brain hemorrhage.
- I’m not saying it was your fault.
- What are you saying then?
It’s hard to understand you
when you’re so vague all the time.
Sorry. but I’m just saying...
We work at a hospital. and things happen...
How can you suspect something serious
without doing anything about it?
- Now you’re being unfair.
- Oh dear. Did I hurt your feelings?
No. but you sent him home
after you examined him.
- Then it’s a bit rude...
- Rude?
That I expect a medical minimum from you?
You’re a doctor. Emilie.
No one feels sorry for you.
Not me. not the patients.
not the relatives. No one out there.
Are your feelings more important?
Should we stop everything we’re doing
and cater to you?
Do you understand that we can’t
put everything aside to look after you?
Patients cry less than you do.
Pull yourself together and stop whining!
Okay.
I don’t want to see it.
I understand it’s hard.
but we need an answer.
Hi. boss.
- Take it away.
- Camilla. they’re just doing their job.
- You don’t have to donate everything. do you?
- Don’t talk like that about Oliver.
- Should we find you a room?
- You're not cutting into him!
- It's your decision.
- I refuse!
- Oliver wanted to donate everything.
- Yes. but I don't want that.
- You can't be the only one to decide.
- What?
We also have to respect Oliver's wishes.
What did I say yesterday?
That he was unwell.
But you wouldn't listen.
- I thought he was hungover.
- Are you stupid? He had a headache!
They said on the phone we should wait.
Didn't you agree to that?
- It's your fault.
- It's no one's fault.
Shut your mouth.
You said he was completely fine.
And now he's dead.
Wasn't there anything during your
examination that made you think -
it could be a brain haemorrhage?
- Medicine is not an exact science.
- That's not good enough.
Aren’t you a doctor?
Don’t you run around in that?
- What kind of person are you?
- Calm down!
Don't touch me. Leave me alone!
- I won’t. but you need to calm down.
- Yes.
- You killed my son. do you understand that?
- Cut it out.
- Are you happy now?
- Camilla. stop!
- Do you hear me? You killed my son!
- Let her go.
He's let go of you.
- Are you okay?
- Yes ... I have patients waiting.
Excuse me. my husband is in pain.
He's been waiting for three hours.
- I don’t have time.
- Hello? Do something.
- Alex?
- Not now.
- Yes. now.
- What?
Didn’t we have an agreement?
- About what?
- That you’d discharge some patients.
- Not without seeing them first.
- I suggest Lone or Christer.
Both are doing quite well
and have said they want to go home.
Not so fearless now. are you?
- Sorry. I'm just stressed.
- Discharge Christer.
No. Lone. Christer.
- Alex. I ...
- Anything else?
Yes. There's a patient
waiting in the intake section.
- Sorry you had to wait.
- It's okay.
- I'm going to shine a light in your eyes.
- Ok.
Look at me.
- Should I do something?
- Yes. you ...
- You look at me and ...
- Yes.
... then you point to the hand that's moving.
I don't see
that either of them is moving.
No. good. Let's do something else.
Look at me and stretch out
your arms. like me.
And then touch your nose with your finger.
- I'll be right back.
- Ok.
Alex?
What is it?
You?
I seem to have forgotten to eat today.
Aren't you just going to go home?
What are the police doing here?
Alex. the police want to talk to you.
- It's not a great time right now.
- About what?
- Can we speak somewhere private?
- Yes. you can sit in there.
Yes. okay.
We understand you were involved
in an unfortunate incident today.
- Was I?
- Can you tell us what happened?
I wasn't ...
When there are lots of emergency patients
and a lot of inexperienced staff. -
it's hard to assess things.
Can you be more specific?
I've never overlooked anything before.
But still. it's not okay
for a relative to threaten a staff member.
That's unacceptable.
- Threaten?
- Was she physical too. the mother?
No. or maybe a little. She was angry.
But did she physically attack you. Alexandra?
We have witnesses who say
she grabbed you.
We need to know what happened
in order to write the report.
She just lost her son. I don't want to ...
You can't.
But what if ...
What if what she said is true?
What did she say?
Don't press charges.
She assaulted a doctor.
Of course we have to press charges.
It was my fault.
It’s my fault.
Hello? Excuse me. do you have time now?
Hello?
You ...
You.
Look at me.
Breathe.
Nice and calm.
That's it. nice and calm.
In through your nose.
out through your mouth.
Like you're blowing through a straw.
Yes. Just like that.
I'll get you some water.
Here.
Thanks.
Phew!
- Don’t you want to sit down for a bit?
- I’m fine.
What are you doing here? Are you okay?
I want to apologise to them.
What do you think they’ll get
out of that apology?
That it wasn’t them who ...
I don’t know.
No. You're not getting anything from them.
You're just putting them in a position
where they have to give you something -
even if they don't want to.
They're not there now.
It's actually a bit ...
Selfish.
We’ve got it under control.
- Can’t I just ...?
- They're not the ones who should forgive you.
- Can we go in?
- Yes.
Hi. You have visitors.
- Can I come in?
- Yes.
- We're not religious or anything.
- We can talk about whatever you want.
I was the one who asked you to come.
This is our son. Oliver.
They say there's nothing to be done.
but there always is. right?
Yes. it’s a nice thought ...
... to believe we have control
and power over our own lives.
But sooner or later we have to admit
that it’s not like that.
- But can’t you say a prayer or something?
- Dear ...
- Miracles happen. right?
- Stop it. He’s right.
Oliver is breathing. We can’t just give up.
The machines are breathing for him.
We can’t do anything for him.
What are you thinking about right now?
I’m thinking about Oliver
and what he wanted.
I just feel so powerless.
Of course you do.
you’re his mother.
Yes.
It’s painful to accept.
Because we live in a world where we have ...
... control over everything.
Almost.
The only thing we don’t control
is death.
Not even doctors can help us with that.
What should we do? You have to help us.
You should do
what you’ve always done.
You should love him.
You don’t stop loving
just because someone dies.
Love is stronger than death.
That’s what makes us human.
There’s also
an acceptance in loving.
Remember that.
Love him.
First thing tomorrow.
I'm reporting you.
I was the one who sent Oliver home
after I’d examined him.
I understand if you think that wasn’t good enough.
I think so too.
If you heard that sound. what would you think
was coming around the corner?
Just answer.
A horse.
And why?
- Because that’s what a horse sounds like.
- Yes. most people would agree.
- I don’t understand where you’re going with this.
- It was a zebra.
No. They don’t get anything out of it.
You’re just putting them in a position where they have to give you something -
even if they don’t want to.
They’re not there now. It’s actually a bit …
Self-centered.
We’ve got it under control.
- Can’t I just …?
- They’re not the ones who need to forgive you.
- Can we go in?
- Yes.
Hi. You’ve got visitors.
- Can I come in?
- Yes.
- We’re not Christians or anything.
- We can talk about whatever you like.
I’m the one who asked you to come.
This is our son. Oliver.
They say there’s nothing to be done.
but there always is. isn’t there?
Yes. it’s a nice thought …
… to think that we have control and power over our own lives.
But sooner or later. we have to admit that it’s not like that.
- But can’t you say a prayer or something?
- Dear …
- Miracles happen. don’t they?
- Stop now. He’s right.
Oliver is breathing. We can’t just give up.
It’s the machines that are breathing for him. We can’t do anything for him.
What are you thinking about right now?
I’m thinking about Oliver and his wish.
I just feel so powerless.
Of course you do. you’re his mother.
Yes.
It’s painful to accept.
Because we live in a world where we have …
… control over everything.
Almost.
The only thing we don’t have control over is death.
Not even doctors can help us with that.
What should we do? You have to help us.
You should do what you’ve always done.
You should love him.
You don’t stop loving just because someone dies.
Love is stronger than death.
That’s what makes us human.
There’s also an acceptance in loving.
Remember that.
Love him.
First thing tomorrow. I’m filing a report against you.
I was the one who sent Oliver home after I examined him.
I understand if you think it wasn’t good enough. I think so too.
If you heard that sound. what would you think was coming around the corner?
Just answer.
A horse.
And why is that?
- Because that’s what a horse sounds like.
- Yes. most people would agree with that.
- I don’t understand where
you’re going with this.
How could you have known Oliver
was a zebra?
What if I had listened to Emilie
and sent him for an MRI?
Would he be alive now?
What are the odds of an 18-year-old
coming in with a brain haemorrhage?
1 in 3800.
Precisely.
You used your judgment. That’s not a mistake.
All doctors have a graveyard.
These are for you.
They’re from a relative.
DEAR ALEXANDRA
WHAT WOULD WE HAVE DONE WITHOUT YOU?
THANK YOU. KIND REGARDS.
ANDERS (WINNIE’S SON)
Thanks.
Subtitles: Håkon J. Wikeland
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm